Welcome to your journey toward an enticing
career path in the Data Science field. Data science has witnessed
recent remarkable growth due to the abundance
of electronic data, computing power, advancements in artificial intelligence,
and its demonstrated business value. In the United States,
the US Bureau of Labor Statistics projects a 35% growth rate in the field. Currently, the median annual salary
is an estimated $103,000. So, begin your journey into this thriving
and fascinating field with this course! Its increased adoption across industries has
fueled demand for skilled data scientists who can use data to tell compelling stories
to transform and inform businesses. In this introductory course, learn about these opportunities and
investigate the needed career skills to become a data scientist. Additionally, this course will help
managers and executives who want to learn about this field to help transform
their organization to become more data-driven. This course is designed for beginners, so you don't need prior knowledge or
a degree in data science or programming. It serves as an introduction to the field. Take this course if you are
curious about data science and how and why data science
is transforming our world. Learn about concepts such as “Big Data,” different branches of artificial intelligence, and how data science leverages these ideas
to uncover and tell hidden stories. This course is the first in several other
specializations and programs, including: IBM Data Science Professional Certificate Introduction to Data Science
Key Technologies for Business IBM AI Foundations for Business. You will meet several data scientists who will share their insights
and experiences in Data Science. You’ll have a foundational
understanding of data science through instructional videos and
videos with data science professionals, readings, practice assessments
where you can practice your skills, glossaries for your reference,
and a video that summarizes each lesson. At the end of the course, you will have a case study
and a quiz based on it as a final assignment. You explore Data Science job listings
in the final peer-reviewed project. Let’s take a more detailed view
of the course content. The course is divided into three modules,
plus an optional module. In the first lesson, you’ll explore what data science is, the data scientist’s role in an organization,
and what makes a skilled data scientist. Then, you continue this module by
learning about what data scientists do. You'll also learn essential skills
for becoming a good data scientist and why significant data matters. You'll explore handling different file types, study data science topics and algorithms, and discuss the qualities
that define a data scientist. In Module 2, Lesson 1, you’ll explore the
interaction of Big Data and Cloud Computing in driving digital transformation. You will also learn foundational concepts, key tools, and data mining techniques essential for
data scientists in this dynamic landscape. In the second module lesson, you’ll dive into the exciting concepts of
artificial intelligence and data science. Throughout this module, you will
explore artificial intelligence concepts like machine learning and deep learning,
gaining valuable insights and skills. In the third module, you’ll embark on a journey
to explore the vast and impactful realms where data science plays a pivotal role. This engaging module
delves into various activities that shed light on the diverse applications
of data science today. In addition to these three modules, you are also offered an optional module
if you’d like to familiarize yourself with data literacy concepts for data science
and where you will learn about the data ecosystem. Topics include sources of data that
data professionals use in their day-to-day tasks and distinguish between databases,
data warehouses, data marts, and data lakes. You gain a basic understanding of how data gets processed, such as the Extract, Transform, and Load (ETL)
processes, and working with Data Pipelines. While participating in the course,
if you encounter challenges or have questions, you can find support and answers and
connect with other learners and support staff in the course’s discussion forums. And now, welcome to the course.
We look forward to you completing this course, earning a valuable certificate, and continuing
your path to a data science career.