Welcome to defining data science,
lesson summary. In this video, we'll review important
points you learned from the videos and readings in this lesson, we'll also link together the ideas
from the resources in this lesson. We will quickly recap
what data science is, data scientists role in an organization,
what makes a skilled data a scientist, and expert advice on how
to acquire these skills? Let's begin, so
what really is data science? Simply put,
data science is the study of data, data science uses data to understand
the world around us, some consider data science an art of uncovering the insights
and trends hiding behind data. Data analysis isn't new,
recent data access and enhanced computing power drives new
insights and knowledge through analysis. We also have the computing power needed to
analyze this data to reveal new knowledge, with the power of computers, we can dig through this information
to reveal valuable insights. Just like a detective uncovering secrets,
data scientists translate the data into stories to generate insights, these
insights aid strategic decision-making for companies or institutions. Similar to biological or
physical sciences, data science deals with structured and
unstructured data. The process of gleaning insights from data
includes clarifying the problem, data collection, analysis, pattern recognition,
storytelling, and visualization. According to Professor Murtez Aheter from
the Ted Rogers School of Management, curiosity, argumentation, and
judgment are vital for data scientists. Curiosity helps you explore data and
come up with meaningful questions. Good, sound, reasonable arguments help you explain your
findings after learning from the data, compelling the listener to adjust their
ideas based on the new information. Good judgment guides you to
start in the right direction. Skilled data scientists go beyond just
being statisticians or computer experts. Companies are looking for versatile individuals who know
a lot about a particular subject, have some experience in programming and
analyzing data, and can communicate well. Generally, data scientists are comfortable
with math, they're curious, they're good at telling stories. Their backgrounds can come from
various fields like economics, engineering, medicine, and more. Once you understand your strengths and
interests, focus on mastering data analysis in that field and
select suitable tools for your industry. As you become proficient, apply your
expertise to solve real world issues using data, similar to solving
mysteries by deciphering clues. So, what does the future look like for
you as a skilled data scientist? Data scientist jobs will also change as
technology changes and data roles develop, to ensure their employees are qualified,
companies will require certification. Data scientists will always need to
think logically, use algorithms, and follow a methodical approach. Most importantly, they must gather
data correctly and carefully analyze the models being used, all aiming to
achieve successful business results. [MUSIC]